# marc21-glimpse(1)

## NAME

*marc21-glimpse* --- Print a dense preview of a data field


## SYNOPSIS

`marc21 glimpse` [_OPTIONS_] `<PATH>` [_INPUT_]...

## DESCRIPTION

This command generates a dense preview of the subfields of a data
field (control fields and the leader are not processed). The preview
is generated by progressively analyzing the relevant data fields
from records until a minimum number of values has been found for each
subfield encountered. The minimum number can be specified using the
`--max-values` / `-n` option (the default value is 10).

Please note that subfields that appear very late in the input may not
be listed in the preview. To get an overview of the distribution of the
subfields, use the [describe] command.

It is also important to note that there does not have to be any
relationship between the values in the same column. The values might
come from different fields or records.

## ARGUMENTS

`<PATH>`
: A path expression.

## OPTIONS

`-n <n>`, `--max-values <n>`
: Maximum number of values to show per subfield (default `10`).

`-o`, `--output <path>`
: Write output to `<path>` instead of `stdout`. If the filename ends in
`.tsv` or `.tsv.gz`, the output is automatically saved in TSV format.
The output is gzip-compressed when the filename ends with `.gz`.

### FILTER OPTIONS

{{ #include filter-opts.md }}

### COMMON OPTIONS

{{ #include common-opts.md }}

## EXIT STATUS

{{ #include exit-status.md }}

## EXAMPLES

In the following example, a preview of field [065] is generated provided
that subfield `2` contains the value `sswd`.

```console
$ marc21 glimpse -n5 '065{ _ | 2 == "sswd" }' DUMP.mrc.gz
$2 sswd, sswd, sswd, sswd, sswd
$a 12.2p, 16.5p, 15.1p, 13.4p, 7.14p
```

The `_` character indicates that the path expression does not impose any
restrictions on the subfield codes. If only a subset of the subfields is
to be considered, these can also be specified explicitly:

```console
$ marc21 glimpse -s -n10 '079.[aq]' DUMP.mrc.gz
$a g, g, g, g, g, g, g
$q s, a, f, z, h, l, d, a, f, s
```

[065]: https://www.loc.gov/marc/authority/concise/ad065.html
[describe]: ./marc21-describe.md
